>> Welcome to "House
of Well-Being."
You're listening to the anxiety
release hypnotherapy audio.
In a moment, the hypnosis will
begin, but before it does,
I'd like to remind you that
the following audio contains
powerful hypnotic suggestions
that aim to help you reach
a deep level of relaxation.
So please be sure that wherever
you're listening to this audio,
you're in a safe and
comfortable place,
free from distractions, where
you can fully relax and let go.
Please don't listen to this
if you driving or operating
machinery.
Should there be an emergency,
your subconscious mind
will alert you, and you'll
easily come out of hypnosis.
But right now,
there's nothing at all
you need to do apart
from close your eyes,
relax, lie back, and
let go, and really enjoy
all those peaceful feelings
and all the benefits that
come with it.
I'd like you now
to make yourself
as comfortable as
possible and listen
to the sound of my voice.
And as you do so, you may be
aware of other sounds going on
around you.
But you know that
they're not important.
They don't matter at all.
And you can dismiss them
out of your awareness
and focus your mind
entirely on what I'm saying.
This is your time, and
you'll make the most of it.
No one needs or wants
anything from you at all.
And I'd like you to take
a deep breath, filling
your lungs as much as you can.
And let it out slowly.
And again, take in
a long, slow breath.
And when you're ready,
let it out slowly.
Now you can allow your
breathing to return to normal.
Gentle breaths in
and out, returning
to your normal gentle
breathing pace.
And I'd like you now
to imagine yourself
outside in your favorite
place in nature.
Maybe it's a peaceful
tropical beach,
or it could be a
beautiful garden.
And maybe you can
imagine lying back
on a boat, which is sailing
on a tranquil river.
It really doesn't
matter where you
are, as long as it feels good
to you and it's a beautiful day.
The sky is a special
shade of blue, so clear.
And it's a warm summer's day.
There's a breeze gently
blowing over you,
and the temperature is
just how you like it.
And in the sky is
a dazzling sun,
so bright that you just
want to close your eyes
and feel the glowing, healing
warmth of the sun on your body.
And surprisingly, you find
that you can direct that sun
over and around your body.
And as you realize
this, you begin
to direct the light from
the sun over your face.
You can feel the healing
warmth of the light
from the sun over your face,
just relaxing those muscles
around the eyes, around the
nose and mouth, and your brow.
And as you do this, you find
that your facial muscles
begin to flatten out
as they relax and you
let go completely.
And it's a beautiful day.
You move the light from the
sun into the throat area,
feeling the warmth of the light
from the sun in your throat,
relaxing all the muscles, just
letting go completely now.
And the warm sunlight now
moving into your shoulders
and across your
shoulders, making them
feel loose and limp
and comfortable
as your shoulders sink into
the frame of your body.
And you feel so comfortable
now, so relaxed and at peace.
And you let nothing bother
or concern you at all.
And do you direct the
light from the sun
down your right arm
from the shoulders
to the tips of your fingers.
Your right arm begins
to relax and let go,
and it's a beautiful feeling
to be here right now.
The warmth of the
light from the sun
penetrates the nerves and bones
and muscles of the right arm.
And it's such a beautiful
day, you move the sun over
to your left arm and guide the
light from the sun down and up
your left arm from the top of
your shoulders all the way down
to the tips of your fingers.
You can feel the left arm
relaxing, becoming comfortably
heavy and totally relaxed.
Now move that warm light
across and into the chest area
and relax the chest,
all the muscles there.
Now down to the stomach,
relaxing your tummy and down
into your hips and your
thighs over to your right leg.
A light warms the muscles
as you relax your right leg.
Let it feel comfortable
and heavy now.
Now move the light
from the sun down
your right leg, up and down
from the top of the hips
to the tips of your toes
as the right leg relaxes
and you let go.
And it's such a beautiful
day, you now move a light
into your left leg.
You move it up and down the left
leg from the top of the hips
to the tips of your toes
and your left leg relaxes,
releasing tension,
letting go now completely.
Your whole body is now
totally and completely relaxed
from the top of your
head all the way down
to the tips of your toes.
And as your body relaxes,
your mind also relaxes.
And I want you now to notice
that the sun is setting, going
down now, deeper
and deeper down,
and you're so deeply
relaxed but still
completely alert and aware.
You resist the temptation
to fall asleep.
Your mind is thoroughly
relaxed, but you
stay focused on these words.
So now I'd like you to
use your imagination.
And once again, you're in a
wonderful place in nature.
The trees are a
beautiful shade of green.
It's a stunning day, and the
sun is shining down on you.
There's a soft and
gentle breeze in the air,
making you feel pleasantly
relaxed and calm.
All around, you can see
trees and plants and an array
of the most beautiful
flowers you have ever seen,
so colorful and vibrant.
And you can smell the rich
aroma of these flowers,
making you feel so peaceful.
Nothing else matters right now.
You feel completely
at ease and so calm.
And in the distance, you
can hear the sound of water
flowing slowly and gently.
The sound of water is helping
you to go more and more deeply
relaxed.
You may feel your muscles
loosening more and more,
relaxing with a beautiful
flowing sound of water.
Out of curiosity, you decide to
follow the sound of the water,
and you feel excited about where
it's leading you, knowing deep
within yourself you're going
to a very special place,
a place where you're
going to create
some positive, wonderful,
long-lasting changes.
As you walk slowly
towards the water,
you can hear the sound of
birds singing in the trees.
You feel totally at ease.
As you finally
reach the lake, you
realize it's the most beautiful
vision you've ever seen,
and you're in awe of the
beauty that surrounds you.
The vast lake is
filled with a variety
of colors, rich colors of blues,
turquoise, and light greens.
And it fills your mind and
body with a wave of relaxation.
You may be becoming more relaxed
with each and every breath
you take, feeling more calm,
more peaceful, and more
relaxed than ever before.
Your mind may be
drifting in and out,
just letting go deeper
and deeper still.
You may feel as though your
mind is flowing gently,
flowing gently like the
lake in your imagination.
You look into the distance,
and you can see a wooden bridge
leading over the lake.
You walk towards the bridge
feeling more and more
deeply relaxed.
As you reach the
bridge, you can see
there are 10 steps leading over
to the other side of the lake.
You slowly start
walking over the bridge,
counting the steps in your mind.
10, nine, deeper and
deeper still, eight, seven,
all the way down
to relaxation now,
six, five, and four, drifting
off peacefully and easily,
three, two, all the way down,
deeply relaxed, and one.
You see a comfortable
padded chair,
and you take a seat
ready to embrace
the changes to come in your
deep state of relaxation now.
You may be feeling particularly
anxious at the moment.
Perhaps you're having feelings
of being out of control
or overwhelmed or fearful.
Perhaps events seem too
difficult to manage,
or perhaps even too many
different things or too
many different
people to deal with.
We know that anxiety
is healthy and normal,
and it happens to all
of us some of the time.
Anxiety is a
response in your body
to make you alert, prepared,
and ready to act when it's
necessary for your benefit.
But for now, you've
allowed your anxiety
to become too
alert, too fearful,
and it's now time to allow
your anxiety some time
to refocus, review,
to do its job better,
return to helping you, and we're
going to do that right now.
And you're conscious of the
gentle beating of your heart
and the steady rhythm
of each breath,
breathing gently and
slowly, slowly and evenly.
And it's time to
realize that you're
in control of your
thoughts as your beliefs
are just thoughts that have
been thought out time and time
again.
Perhaps you've been thinking
too much that you're not
good enough, or you've been
worrying about something out
of your control or a situation.
Fear or phobia has
been holding you back.
We can simply replace those
old unwanted thoughts now
with new empowering
positive ones.
It's time now to stop imagining
the worst is about to happen
when good things await you.
As we free ourselves
now of panic or anxiety
or whichever symptoms have
been generated in the past,
we replace them with
feelings of calmness,
feelings of confidence, control,
and optimism for the future.
And every time you discharge one
of those symptoms of anxiety,
you will replace
them with a feeling
of being calm,
relaxed, optimistic,
and confident for things ahead.
You know that anxiety and
fear are very different.
Fear is what you feel in the
moment, when you're watching
a scary film, for example.
And fear makes a lot of sense.
But anxiety is about the
anticipation of an event.
Anxiety is your brain asking
what if too many times
and coming up with a lot
of answers it doesn't like.
But you don't know the future.
That what-if may
not even happen.
So anxiety is often
problem-solving
but without the solving part.
From now on, you no
longer worry about things
that may happen in the
future, things that might
make you feel out of control.
And you learn to live much
more in the moment day
by day as you take
each day at a time,
being present and mindful.
And you release the
tension of worrying
about things in the future
that you can't control.
You take each day at a time.
You remember that the body can't
feel two conflicting emotions
at once.
So whenever you feel
yourself tensing,
anxiety rising, all you
need to do is slow down.
Breathe in and breathe out
and allow your body to relax.
If you have your
breathing under control,
gentle breaths in and
out, your body and mind
will have no choice but to
slow down, to ground yourself.
Your thinking will slow.
Your heartbeat returns
to its normal pace.
Those feelings of
anxiety will be
replaced with calm and
stillness, gentle breaths
in and out again.
So let's do a breathing
technique now.
I'd like you to breathe
in for four seconds,
hold for four seconds,
and breathe out for six.
Starting now, breathe in
for one, two, three, four.
Hold for one, two, three, four.
And release for one, two,
three, four, five, and six.
And you find a pace
that's right for you
but using that
technique to calm you,
to ground you when your
thoughts and your mind
seem out of control.
In for four, hold for
four, and out for six.
Whenever you feel
anxious now, you simply
use that breathing
technique to flip the body
from feeling anxious into a
state of calm and relaxation.
You feel yourself free, such
a relief, such a release,
taking every day as it comes,
taking back control, feeling
more and more in control
each and every day.
You take a couple of
deep refreshing breaths
in and out, perhaps imagining
breathing in calm, pure air,
remembering anxiety is simply
an old primitive response,
which needs help to escape.
And as you exhale, you're
exhaling any feelings
of anxiety, stress, and panic.
And you can relax your body
if ever those old feelings
of panic return breathing
deeply and calmly,
retraining your mind to slow
down instead of speed up,
rewiring those
thinking patterns,
allowing your body
and mind to relax
as you regain control now.
When you inhale in
this way, your breath
pushes deep into
abdomen, deep, deep down.
You take slow deep breaths
to regulate your breathing
and slowly let it go.
All at the same time,
telling yourself
to feel calm and relaxed.
I am calm.
I am confident.
I am strong.
I am calm.
I am confident.
I am strong.
You immediately feel much
calmer and much more relaxed.
You realize now that you
are not your thoughts.
Your thoughts are
merely old habits,
beliefs that have been formed
as they've been repeated
in your mind again and again.
So you decide to think
new positive thoughts now,
empowering thoughts,
confident thoughts that
will equip you to stay calm and
relaxed throughout your day.
And as you think these
positive thoughts more often,
you slowly compound and
replace the old beliefs
of feeling anxious to
feeling calm and relaxed,
rewiring those
thinking patterns now.
As soon as you find yourself
thinking negatively,
you immediately replace I am
feeling calm and confident,
thinking more
positively day by day.
Your mind commands,
and your body obeys.
And when you tell yourself
that you're calm and relaxed,
you instantly
experience that calm
relaxed feeling in your
body, taking back control.
And if you ever feel any of
that old anxiety creeping up
on you, all you need to do
is those breathing exercises
as quickly as possible,
reminding yourself
you can regulate your breathing.
You can relax your whole body.
You can and you do,
immediately grounding yourself.
You remember to check
your body for tension,
and you release it.
Check your shoulders and neck,
letting your shoulders droop
and relax.
You check your
jaw, and you allow
it to hang loosely,
your forehead becoming
smooth and relaxed.
You check your abdomen, letting
each breath relax your stomach,
and each deep breath relaxes
your stomach more and more
deeply.
You relax any part of your
body that feels the tension,
letting it go.
You always remember
that you are in charge.
You have the ability, the
tools, and the knowledge
to let go of all of that
old unnecessary anxiety.
You feel confident,
calm, and relaxed.
From now on, you find yourself
feeling much calmer and much
more relaxed and so
much more confident
as those old anxieties begin to
diminish because you know now
exactly how to deal with them.
And after a few times of
practicing these techniques,
those old unwanted
responses will
change as a new response
pattern sets in,
a pattern of coping,
taking control, and feeling
wonderfully relaxed and at ease.
And perhaps they're
even changing now
as you listen to me for you
instinctively know that you can
do this, you can take control.
You can be in charge of
your mind, your body,
and your health.
I'd like you now to think of a
situation that would previously
have caused you to
feel anxious, that is
before you learned these
new coping strategies.
Picture yourself at a future
date in a similar situation.
And see yourself in the
situation, what you can hear,
see, and smell.
Notice that you're behaving
differently this time.
You're much more in control.
Your body is calm and relaxed.
And you're speaking
calmly and confidently.
Your anxiety is so faint
you can barely perceive it.
You see yourself now
coping brilliantly.
Feel yourself taking that
long, slow, deep breath,
filling your mind
with positivity,
telling yourself you
are calm and relaxed.
And notice how you
instantly respond
in a positive, healthy way,
feeling wonderfully calm,
relaxed, and in control.
And you know instinctively that
this works for you, that you
can feel good, you
can be relaxed,
free from any unwanted
feelings, replacing
them easily and effortlessly
with calm and confident
feelings, and you're excited
now to put these new feelings
into practice.
These hypnotic
suggestions are now
embedded into your
subconscious mind,
and they'll become
more and more powerful
as the days and weeks go by.
And in a moment, I'm going
to count up from one to five
to awaken you.
And at the count of five, you'll
be wide awake, fully refreshed,
alert, and feeling
fantastic, bringing back
all the wonderful new feelings.
So one, two, three,
four, and five.
Eyes open when you're ready.